Basics of Port addressing :

As per now : 
Ip address - connection between two routers
MAC address - connection from LAN from Switch to Routers
now,
Port address : Connection from switches to the specific node

(youtube, media player)
process ---->---->---- switch/hub --->--- Router
Port                    MAC               IP

Example :
Reaching To Chennai from Mumbai - IP address via Routers
Reaching to the Building in Chennai - MAC Address via Switch
Reaching to our house : Port address via Switch to nodes


Port Address or Port Numbers :

- In a node, many processes may be running.
- Data whichis sent/received must reach the right process.
- The Port numbers/address are the identification terms of different procceses in a computer.
- Port = communication End point
- Hence, they are called as Port address which elaborates endpoint address/numbers.
- The port numbers are fixed or dynamically assigned. (0 - 65535)


fixed port numbers - 25 , 80 , 45 , etc...
dynamic port numbers assigned by OS - 21345, etc...

Example : 

Internet Explorer -----
                      |
Mozilla Firefox   -----
                      |--->--- Node --->---Switch --->---Router --->--- Internet Cloud --->--- Webserver (Youtube)
Media Player      -----
                      |
Google Chrome :   -----
(To access Youtube)    


All the processes ,firefox - chrome - media player, will have a unique Port Address to access the various services via Networking and avoid collisions for transfer
of the data from one Endpoint ot anothrt Endpoint.

Port number of the process will request to port numberof the following service provided by the Internetand Internet will accept and the data to the following port 
address which requests the data.

To see port addressing our home devices,
click start > search > resmon(resource monitoring) > List of all the processes that are currently running in the OS will appear.
 

3 key points to remember :

Before 
1. Attach source IP address to destination Ip address - so that the Network gets identified.
2. Attach source MAC address to destination MAC address - so that Host gets identified.
3. Attach source Port address to destination Port address - so that Process gets identified.


