
Transport layer :

- It is used for the Process to process the delivery of the entire message.
Example :
If a user uses chrome for sending the mail, the application is called as the 
platform and the process carried out on the platform is the process.
That unique process info is carried by the transport layer to the destination,
where the request is granteed or task is done.

chrome ----
          |
media  ----
          |-- Node -->-- switch -->-- router -->-- Internet Cloud -->-- Web Serv.  
whatsapp --
          |
calculator-

<--------------------------------Transport layer------------------------------>
                 (Carries all the process info to the end user)


The services provided by Transport layer :

1. Port addressing.
2. End to End Flow control - synchronize speed of senders sendng and receivers
	                     receiving.
3. Connection Control (either like telephone, w connection or connection less)
4. Error control
5. Segmentation and Reassembly (breakimg big messages and reassembling them.)


Network layer : 

- Responsible for the delivery of the data from source network to the 
  destination network.

The services offered by the network layer are : 

1. Logical Addressing - involves with the IP address for data communication
2. Routing.


Data Link layer :

- The task of the data link layer is to move the data packets from one node to 
  another node.

The services provided b the Data Link layer are :

1. Access Control - which device has requested the access for the service. 
2. Flow Control
3. Framing - Groups bits of 0's and 1's
4. Physical Addressing - Involved between the MAC address of two switches.
5. Error Control


Physical Layer :

- After framing is done in the data Link layer, Physical Layer is responsible 
  for the transmission of bits over the data communication medium.

- There are two types of medium, Wired medium and Wireless medium. It also
  provides electrical and mechanical specifications based on the type of medium.

- If its a wired medium, the data issent via mechanical specification like wires, 
  Fibre Optic can send the data in light impulses.

- If its a wireless medium, The data is sent via Signals in the form of waves,
  tht can be caught by the receiver in the Intermediary devices. 

Services offered by the Physical layer are :

1. Physical characteristics of the media - To checkif medium is wired or wireless
2. Representation of bits - how 1's and 0's are converted into signals.
3. Data rate - the speed to data packets to be sent and to be fetched as well
4. Synchronization of Bits - Clock between sender and rcvr transmission to sync
5. Line Configuration - whether its Point to point or point to many nodes.
6. Physical topology - checks whether its a ring topology,star, mesh, bus, etc...


















